Speech at The 2024 Earth Day Divestment Rally
Noah Liguori-Bills
4/9/24

We are gathered here today as students and faculty of NC State because our university has placed us in a grave dilemma. NC State University, like all universities, has a massive pool of money that it invests and uses to run various university programs. To the detriment of all students, faculty, and staff, who study and work here, NC State chooses to invest over 43 million of dollars into the fossil fuel industry and the military industrial complex. NC State Students for Decarbonization, Dissenters, Campus Thrift Store, Students for Justice in Palestine, Young Democratic Socialists of America, Campus Community Alliance for Environmental Justice, Wolfpack Beds, Eco+Pack, North Carolina Conservation Network, and many other individuals are demanding the university fully divest, meaning end all its investments and ties to the fossil fuel industry and military industrial complex and move that money into clean energy investments. Investing in fossil fuels and war is explicitly contradictory to each of the university's mission statement values, most notably sustainability; and forces all of us into a situation where by studying and working at NC State, we are supporting the expansion of fossil fuel infrastructure and the military industrial complex. Those are two investments that make no one proud to be a wolf.

We choose to group these industries, fossil fuels and weapons manufacturers, not only because they both profit off the death of people and nature, but because they are inextricably dependent on each other. The US Military is the world’s largest institutional user of oil, and the world’s largest producer of greenhouse gasses. But the military’s codependency with fossil fuels reaches much deeper than just usage. Consider the weapons the military uses. Tanks, ships, and planes all burn oil, bullets and bombs explode with powder made from oil, and even knives are forged from the heat of burning coal. In The Department of Defense Operational Energy Strategy, General David Petraeus wrote “Energy is the lifeblood of our warfighting capabilities.” Militaries require massive power, provided at the cheapest, dirtiest rates by fossil fuels. And the fossil fuel industry needs massive consumption, which war provides. Therefore, all modern war is fought with the deadliest weapon known to humankind: fossil fuels.

Understanding this, it is clear why the US is now intentionally spreading the Palestine-Israel conflict across the Middle East. It is clear why recently the US initiated new airstrikes in Syria, Yemen, and Iraq, reigniting old conflicts. Because war and fossil fuel combustion are intertwined products of capitalism, incentivised only to profit, regardless of consequence. And it is equally clear that a ceasefire is immediately needed to stop the proliferation of war, fossil fuels, the military industrial complex, and genocide in Palestine!

I choose to believe that the administration’s continued investments in war and the fossil fuels that power it are not a result of their lack of concern, but rather that they cannot imagine what a truly sustainable and peaceful institution would even be. So to conclude my speech, I will try to imagine just that.
What if, instead of being paralyzed by the uncertainty of embracing peace and sustainability, NC State became one of the first universities in the world to fully divest all its investments and ties to the fossil fuel industry and military industrial complex? NC State would be a global leader in peace and sustainability. Instead of being forced to antagonize their own institution, student activists would celebrate the fact that they have the privilege to attend North Carolina State University- the leader in higher education peace and sustainability. Around the world NC State would be famous for its pioneering role in the history of education. The best students, professionals, researchers, artists, athletes, and teachers would come from all corners of the globe to study and work at the forefront of institutional ethics. Undoubtedly in terms of both economics and meaning, divesting would literally be the most profitable investment in NC State history.
