Speech at UConn Board of Trustees Meeting
Noah Liguori-Bills
3/30/22

﻿Hello everyone, my name is Noah Liguori-Bills and I am speaking today in yet another attempt to convince the board of trustees to follow the guidelines outlined in the President’s Working Group on Sustainability and the Environment in order to decarbonize our institution. Furthermore, I am also voicing my support for increased funding to UConn’s cultural centers, as discussed by the other student speakers. I don’t believe I have to explain to the highly educated people of this room that UConn’s continued reliance on fossil fuels has an enormous cost that both the university and all the people of the world will soon have to pay. To be precise, using the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change cost of emissions, every single year it remains open, UConn’s CoGen power plant alone creates more than 5 million dollars of costs to be repaid over the next 100 years. This has to stop.
Fortunately, we know exactly how to stop UConn’s destructive practices and turn it into a truly sustainable university. In 2020 faculty and students came together under the guidance of President Katsouleas to form the president's working group on sustainability and the environment which outlined in precise detail how the university can realistically become carbon neutral by 2040. To reiterate a line in the report, “the Working Group recommendations do not represent optional improvements, but rather an emergency response that must be addressed as quickly and comprehensively as possible.”

I would like to say that this is the first time I am asking the Board of Trustees to follow the advice outlined in the president's working group, but the truth is that I have spent all three years I have attended this institution advocating for decarbonisation, and there has been almost no response. As an example, this summer President Maric sent the university an email on sustainable initiatives on campus. I responded to her email asking for decarbonization action, and sent a copy to the board of trustees. After several months I have received no response. I will now read the version I sent to President Maric, noting that my message is the same to every member of the Board.

“Hi Dr. Maric,
I feel very validated to hear a UConn administrator call climate change "a global calamity," but I also feel upset that the UConn administration continues to ignore the guidance of the students and faculty they appointed to the President's Working Group on Sustainability and the Environment. If UConn is "[applying] for federal grants of up to $8 billion [to expand research capacity]" then why not also apply for the funding necessary to make UConn a real leader in sustainability through carbon neutrality by 2040 (as outlined in the working group report)? Do not let your title "interim" allow you to forget that everyone leaves a legacy everywhere they go (a legacy that is written in actions, not emails), and that the climate crisis will not fix itself unless everyone cares enough to change the institutions that cause it.
To quote the Lorax, "Unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing is going to get better. It's not."

-A concerned but hopeful student”

I choose to believe that the administration’s lack of action is not a result of their lack of concern for the issue, but rather that they cannot imagine a path towards decarbonization, and what a truly sustainable institution would even be. So to conclude my statement, I will reiterate a message from a speech I made at a previous board meeting on what a decarbonized UConn would be-

What if, instead of being paralyzed by the price tag of decarbonization, UConn followed the advice outlined in the president’s working group on sustainability and became one of the first decarbonized universities in the world? UConn would be a global leader in sustainability. Instead of being forced to antagonize their own institution, student activists would celebrate the fact that they have the privilege to attend The University of Connecticut- the leader in higher education sustainability. Around the world UConn would be famous for its pioneering role in the history of education. The best students, professionals, researchers, artists, athletes, and teachers would come from all corners of the globe to study and work at the forefront of sustainability.

Presented with this vision, I am certain that alumni would be elated to donate and the state would readily write grants towards the most meaningful project UConn has ever partaken in. Undoubtedly in terms of both economics and meaning, decarbonizing would literally be the most profitable investment in UConn history.
